Database contains records for 1885 respondents. For each respondent 12 attributes are known: Personality measurements which include NEO-FFI-R (neuroticism, extraversion, openness to experience, agreeableness, and conscientiousness), BIS-11 (impulsivity), and ImpSS (sensation seeking), level of education, age, gender, country of residence and ethnicity. All input attributes are originally categorical and are quantified. After quantification values of all input features can be considered as real-valued. In addition, participants were questioned concerning their use of 18 legal and illegal drugs (alcohol, amphetamines, amyl nitrite, benzodiazepine, cannabis, chocolate, cocaine, caffeine, crack, ecstasy, heroin, ketamine, legal highs, LSD, methadone, mushrooms, nicotine and volatile substance abuse and one fictitious drug (Semeron) which was introduced to identify over-claimers. For each drug they have to select one of the answers: never used the drug, used it over a decade ago, or in the last decade, year, month, week, or day.
Database contains 18 classification problems. Each of independent label variables contains seven classes: "Never Used", "Used over a Decade Ago", "Used in Last Decade", "Used in Last Year", "Used in Last Month", "Used in Last Week", and "Used in Last Day".

Problem which can be solved:

    Seven class classifications for each drug separately.
    Problem can be transformed to binary classification by union of part of classes into one new class. For example, "Never Used", "Used over a Decade Ago" form class "Non-user" and all other classes form class "User".
    The best binarization of classes for each attribute.
    Evaluation of risk to be drug consumer for each drug.

Detailed description of database and process of data quantification are presented in E. Fehrman, A. K. Muhammad, E. M. Mirkes, V. Egan and A. N. Gorban, "The Five Factor Model of personality and evaluation of drug consumption risk.," arXiv [Web Link], 2015
Paper above solve binary classification problem for all drugs. For most of drugs sensitivity and specificity are greater than 75%

Feature Attributes for Quantified Data:

    ID: is a number of records in an original database. Cannot be related to participant. It can be used for reference only.
    Age (Real) is the age of partparticipant
    Gender: Male or Female
    Education: level of education of participant
    Country: country of origin of the participant
    Ethnicity: ethnicity of participant
    Nscore (Real) is NEO-FFI-R Neuroticism
    Escore (Real) is NEO-FFI-R Extraversion
    Oscore (Real) is NEO-FFI-R Openness to experience.
    Ascore (Real) is NEO-FFI-R Agreeableness.
    Cscore (Real) is NEO-FFI-R Conscientiousness.
    Impulsive (Real) is impulsiveness measured by BIS-11
    SS (Real) is sensation seeing measured by ImpSS
    Alcohol: alcohol consumption
    Amphet: amphetamines consumption
    Amyl: nitrite consumption
    Benzos: benzodiazepine consumption
    Caff: caffeine consumption
    Cannabis: marijuana consumption
    Choc: chocolate consumption
    Coke: cocaine consumption
    Crack: crack cocaine consumption
    Ecstasy: ecstasy consumption
    Heroin: heroin consumption
    Ketamine: ketamine consumption
    Legalh: legal highs consumption
    LSD: LSD consumption
    Meth: methadone consumption
    Mushroom: magic mushroom consumption
    Nicotine: nicotine consumption
    Semer: class of fictitious drug Semeron consumption (i.e. control)
    VSA: class of volatile substance abuse consumption
    Alcohol: alcohol consumption

Rating's for Drug Use:

    CL0 Never Used
    CL1 Used over a Decade Ago
    CL2 Used in Last Decade
    CL3 Used in Last Year 59
    CL4 Used in Last Month
    CL5 Used in Last Week
    CL6 Used in Last Day
